so now I'm going to go after the butt
end of the tenderloin or my chateaubriand
this muscle is sitting on top of both our hip bone and the last the tail end
of our spinal vertebrae so I'm just going to
follow I'm going to use the face of my knife
and I'm going to be
feeling the bone with the face of my knife
just like so so the face of
my knife glides along the bone
my less dominant hand is going to be pulling
the muscle but it's very important at this
stage that I know exactly where my fingers are
obviously because the amount of effort that is
required to remove this muscle is the same
amount of effort to remove one of my fingers
so there is our chateaubriand muscle
now I'm going to be removing is what's called my
hip bone in beef this has got an old french
word it's called the "Aitch" bone but it's not the
regular not the letter "H" it's spelled "Aitch"
the first thing I'm going to do is
remove something called our spider
and our spider is a little muscle that
sits on the inside of this curved bone
it is also referred to as your oyster
meat so I'm going to once again use
the face of my knife to glide against this bone
this muscle is a beautiful muscle
it's actually very very tender
but there's not very much on the carcass
which is the reason why we often don't see it
sold or merchandised but it
is a lovely piece of meat